---
title: Legal
index: 5
description: Legal notice
---

<section class="content-floating">

<h2>1. Google Analytics</h2>

In accordance with Art. 6 (1) sent. 1 point (f) GDPR, this website uses Google Analytics, a web analytics service provided by Google, Inc. based in the USA (in the following: Google). Google Analytics uses cookies, text files placed on your computer, to help the website analyze how users use the site. The information generated by the cookie about your use of the website will normally be transmitted to and stored by Google on servers in the United States.
<br/><br/>
In accordance with the Commission Implementing Decision (EU) 2016/1250 of 12 July 2016 transfers from a controller or processor in the European Union to organisations in the U.S. that have self-certified their adherence to the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield Framework Principles with the Department of Commerce and have committed to comply with them are allowed. Google has self-certified its adherence to the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield Framework Principles and has committed to comply with them.
<br/><br/>
In case of activation of the IP anonymization on this website, Google will shorten the IP address beforehand within Member States of the European Union as well as for other parties to the Agreement on the European Economic Area. Only in exceptional cases, the full IP address is sent to and shortened by Google servers in the USA. The IP anonymization is active on this website. On our behalf Google will use this information for the purpose of evaluating your use of the website, compiling reports on website activity and providing other services relating to website activity and internet usage to the website provider. We have a legitimate interest in analyzing user behavior in order to optimize our websites and our marketing.
<br/><br/>
You may disable the use of cookies by selecting the appropriate settings on your browser. Furthermore you can prevent Google’s collection and use of data by downloading and installing the browser plug-in available under <a href="https://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout?hl=en-GB">https://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout?hl=en-GB</a> (external link to Google)
<br/><br/>
Please note that you have to deactivate tracking for every single browser you use to prevent tracking from Google Analytics completely.
<br/><br/>
For further information about Google’s privacy policy please visit: <a href="https://www.google.de/intl/en/policies/privacy/">https://www.google.de/intl/en/policies/privacy/</a> (external link to Google)


<h2> 2. Google Fonts</h2>

On our websites we use the service Google Fonts, a service of Google Inc. based in the USA (in the following: Google). By including this service in our websites data of website visitors may be transferred to Google. This processing takes place on the legal basis of Art. 6 (1) sent. 1 point (f) GDPR because of our legitimate interest to make our websites more attractive to our website visitors. With Google Fonts fonts on our websites may be displayed consistently and we may offer faster loading times for our websites. When accessing our website your browser downloads the necessary Google Fonts to the browser cache to display texts and fonts correctly. According to Google your requests for fonts are separate from and do not contain any credentials you send to the Google server while using other Google services that are authenticated.
<br/><br/>
In accordance with the Commission Implementing Decision (EU) 2016/1250 of 12 July 2016 transfers from a controller or processor in the European Union to organisations in the U.S. that have self-certified their adherence to the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield Framework Principles with the Department of Commerce and have committed to comply with them are allowed. Google has self-certified its adherence to the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield Framework Principles and has committed to comply with them.
<br/><br/>
For further information about Google’s privacy policy please visit: <a href="https://www.google.de/intl/en/policies/privacy/">https://www.google.de/intl/en/policies/privacy/</a> (external link to Google)

</section>